The data was collected by Mendeley data and was published in August 2021 and it includes
a T-score generated from the Qualitative Ultrasound System so T-score is basically a number
which is generated by a bone density scan. T-score above -1 indicates that a person has
healthy bone, T-scores between -1 and -2.5 indicates that a person has low bone density and
if a T-score is -2.5 or lower, then a person is diagnosed with osteoporosis. Osteopenia is
the term used to describe a person who has “low bone density,” which indicates that their
bones are weaker and that they are more likely to fracture and osteoporosis is a disorder that
makes bones weak and brittle to the point where a fall or even minor stress can break them.
Most often, it happens beyond the age of 50.The important variables on which we are going
to focus are diagnosis (which is the response variable and we have classified as 0,1. 0 is for
normal and 1 is for osteopenia or osteoporosis), Gender, Age, Weight, Height, BMI, T-Score,
Z-score, Menopause Age, Number of Pregnancies and Maximum Walking Distace covered in
a day. We have a total of 240 observations out of which 36 patients has normal knee x-rays,
49 has osteoporosis and 154 has osteopenia and there are 27 variables of the dataset. There
are 19 female and 18 male patients diagnosed as normal. The number of female patients
diagnosed with osteopenia is 36 higher than that of male patients. Among patients diagnosed
with osteoporosis, there are 13 more male patients than female patients. 

https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/stevepython/osteoporosis-knee-xray-dataset
